README.md, before:

# MrS SpELliNgS
a micro utility to procedurally generate plausible misspellings

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/mrs-spellings"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/mrs-spellings.svg" alt="PyPI version" height="18"></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/CircArgs/mrs_spellings">
  <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/CircArgs/mrs_spellings/branch/master/graph/badge.svg" />
</a>
 
<img alt="Build Status" src="https://github.com/CircArgs/mrs_spellings/workflows/test/badge.svg">
<img alt="Code style: black" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg">
<img alt="Language Python" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/language-Python-blue">
</div>

---
# [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [MrS SpELliNgS](#mrs-spellings)
- [Install](#install)
    + [from pypi](#from-pypi)
    + [from source](#from-source)
- [Use Cases](#use-cases)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Methods](#methods)
  * [deletion](#deletion)
  * [swapping](#swapping)
  * [qwerty distance (taxi-cab) based swapping](#qwerty-distance-taxi-cab-based-swapping)
  * [What is QWERTY distance?](#what-is-qwerty-distance)
---
# Install

### from pypi

`pip install mrs_spellings`

### from source

`python -m pip install git+https://github.com/CircArgs/mrs_spellings.git`

# Use Cases

- Generate misspellings to replace during the text cleaning process with low overhead
- Replace words with their potential misspellings as an augmentation during
  - training to make your model less susceptible to misspellings
  - during test time as part of TTA

# Usage

There are 3 primary methods currently supported:
  * [deletion](#deletion)
  * [swapping](#swapping)
  * [qwerty distance (taxi-cab) based swapping](#qwerty-distance-taxi-cab-based-swapping)
```python
In [1]: from mrs_spellings import MrsWord, MrsSpellings                                                                                                                                                            
#methods return MrsSpellings
In [2]: MrsWord("hello").swap()                                                                                                                                                                      
Out[2]: {'ehllo', 'hello', 'helol', 'hlelo'}

In [3]: MrsWord("hello").delete(number_deletes=1)                                                                                                                                                    
Out[3]: {'ello', 'hell', 'helo', 'hllo'}

In [4]: MrsWord("hello").qwerty_swap(max_distance=1)                                                                                                                                                 
Out[4]: 
{'gello',
 'h3llo',
 'hdllo',
 'he,lo',
 'he:lo',
  ...
 'jello',
 'nello',
 'yello'}
# simply chain methods
In [5]: MrsWord("hello").swap().delete()                                                                                                                                                             
Out[5]: 
{'ehll',
 'ehlo',
 'ello',
  ...
 'hllo',
 'hlol',
 'lelo'}
 
# MrsWord is a string
In [6]: MrsWord("Hello") + " " + MrsWord("World")                                                                                                                                                        
Out[6]: 'Hello World'

In [7]: MrsWord("Hello {}").format("world")                                                                                                                                                      
Out[7]: 'Hello world'

# MrsSpellings work as sets
In [8]: MrsWord("hello").swap().union(MrsWord("world").delete())                                                                                                                        
Out[8]: {'ehllo', 'hello', 'helol', 'hlelo', 'orld', 'wold', 'word', 'worl', 'wrld'}

In [9]: MrsWord("hello").delete(1)-MrsWord("hello").delete(1)                                                                                                                                        
Out[9]: set()

In [10]: " ".join(MrsWord("Hello").qwerty_swap())                                                                                                                                                     
Out[10]: 'Helko Hdllo Yello He,lo Helll Hellp Hel,o Nello Heklo Hrllo H3llo Gello Heolo He:lo Helli Hell9 Heloo Hel:o Jello Hwllo'
```

# Methods

## deletion
```python
Signature: MrsWord.delete(number_deletes=1)
Docstring:
delete some number `number_deletes` from this word

Args:
    number_deletes (int): number of deletions to perform

Returns:
    MrsSpellings (set): all possible misspellings that form as a result of `number_deletes` deletions
```

## swapping
```python
Signature: MrsWord.swap()
Docstring:
swap some consecutive characters

Args:

Returns:
    MrsSpellings (set): all possible misspellings that form as a result of swapping consecutive characters
```

## qwerty distance (taxi-cab) based swapping
```python
Signature: MrsWord.qwerty_swap(max_distance=1)
Docstring:

swap characters with their qwerty neighbors

Args:
    max_distance (int): the max distance (taxi-cab) of keys on the keyboard to swap
                        e.g. `max_distance=1` then "g" could become one of ["f", "h"]
                            `max_distance=2` then "g" could become one of ['f', 'h', 't', 'y', 'v', 'b']
                            Note: The number of swaps possible increases with distance however the increase is not always uniform.
                            For example, the 3rd set of keys from g is ['6', 'd', 'j'] while the second was ['t', 'y', 'v', 'b']
Returns:
    MrsSpellings (set): all possible misspellings that form as a result of swapping characters with qwerty neighbors

```

### what is qwerty distance?

Qwerty distance is the distance between keys on the typical keyboard. For the purposes of this package, the following assumptions are made:

- each row has half a key offset
- the l1 distance is a good estimate of the natural travel distance between keys on the keyboard
- the shift key can add distance by virtue of requiring a hold-down

Here is an example of the results of these assumptions. The closest keys grouped by equal distance (groups in ascending order to furthest distance) to the `g` key are:
```python
[['f', 'h'],
 ['t', 'y', 'v', 'b'],
 ['6', 'd', 'j'],
 ['r', 'u', 'c', 'n'],
 ['^', '5', '7', 's', 'k'],
 ['e', 'i', 'x', 'm'],
 ['%', '&', '4', '8', 'a', 'l'],
 ['w', 'o', 'z', '<'],
 ['$', '*', '3', '9', ':'],
 ['q', 'p', ','],
 ['#', '(', '2', '0', ';'],
 ['[', '>'],
 ['@', ')', '1', '-', '"'],
 [']', '.'],
 ['!', '_', '`', '=', "'"],
 ['\\', '?'],
 ['~', '+', '{'],
 ['/'],
 ['}'],
 ['|']]
 ```

Commit message:

add supplement existing solution use case

README.md, after:

# MrS SpELliNgS
a micro utility to procedurally generate plausible misspellings

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/mrs-spellings"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/mrs-spellings.svg" alt="PyPI version" height="18"></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/CircArgs/mrs_spellings">
  <img src="https://codecov.io/gh/CircArgs/mrs_spellings/branch/master/graph/badge.svg" />
</a>
 
<img alt="Build Status" src="https://github.com/CircArgs/mrs_spellings/workflows/test/badge.svg">
<img alt="Code style: black" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg">
<img alt="Language Python" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/language-Python-blue">
</div>

---
# [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [MrS SpELliNgS](#mrs-spellings)
- [Install](#install)
    + [from pypi](#from-pypi)
    + [from source](#from-source)
- [Use Cases](#use-cases)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Methods](#methods)
  * [deletion](#deletion)
  * [swapping](#swapping)
  * [qwerty distance (taxi-cab) based swapping](#qwerty-distance-taxi-cab-based-swapping)
  * [What is QWERTY distance?](#what-is-qwerty-distance)
---
# Install

### from pypi

`pip install mrs_spellings`

### from source

`python -m pip install git+https://github.com/CircArgs/mrs_spellings.git`

# Use Cases

- Generate misspellings to replace during the text cleaning process with low overhead
- Replace words with their potential misspellings as an augmentation during
  - training to make your model less susceptible to misspellings
  - during test time as part of TTA
- Supplement an existing solution for out-of-vocabulary words/ words that do not appear in an existing replacement dictionary

# Usage

There are 3 primary methods currently supported:
  * [deletion](#deletion)
  * [swapping](#swapping)
  * [qwerty distance (taxi-cab) based swapping](#qwerty-distance-taxi-cab-based-swapping)
```python
In [1]: from mrs_spellings import MrsWord, MrsSpellings                                                                                                                                                            
#methods return MrsSpellings
In [2]: MrsWord("hello").swap()                                                                                                                                                                      
Out[2]: {'ehllo', 'hello', 'helol', 'hlelo'}

In [3]: MrsWord("hello").delete(number_deletes=1)                                                                                                                                                    
Out[3]: {'ello', 'hell', 'helo', 'hllo'}

In [4]: MrsWord("hello").qwerty_swap(max_distance=1)                                                                                                                                                 
Out[4]: 
{'gello',
 'h3llo',
 'hdllo',
 'he,lo',
 'he:lo',
  ...
 'jello',
 'nello',
 'yello'}
# simply chain methods
In [5]: MrsWord("hello").swap().delete()                                                                                                                                                             
Out[5]: 
{'ehll',
 'ehlo',
 'ello',
  ...
 'hllo',
 'hlol',
 'lelo'}
 
# MrsWord is a string
In [6]: MrsWord("Hello") + " " + MrsWord("World")                                                                                                                                                        
Out[6]: 'Hello World'

In [7]: MrsWord("Hello {}").format("world")                                                                                                                                                      
Out[7]: 'Hello world'

# MrsSpellings work as sets
In [8]: MrsWord("hello").swap().union(MrsWord("world").delete())                                                                                                                        
Out[8]: {'ehllo', 'hello', 'helol', 'hlelo', 'orld', 'wold', 'word', 'worl', 'wrld'}

In [9]: MrsWord("hello").delete(1)-MrsWord("hello").delete(1)                                                                                                                                        
Out[9]: set()

In [10]: " ".join(MrsWord("Hello").qwerty_swap())                                                                                                                                                     
Out[10]: 'Helko Hdllo Yello He,lo Helll Hellp Hel,o Nello Heklo Hrllo H3llo Gello Heolo He:lo Helli Hell9 Heloo Hel:o Jello Hwllo'
```

# Methods

## deletion
```python
Signature: MrsWord.delete(number_deletes=1)
Docstring:
delete some number `number_deletes` from this word

Args:
    number_deletes (int): number of deletions to perform

Returns:
    MrsSpellings (set): all possible misspellings that form as a result of `number_deletes` deletions
```

## swapping
```python
Signature: MrsWord.swap()
Docstring:
swap some consecutive characters

Args:

Returns:
    MrsSpellings (set): all possible misspellings that form as a result of swapping consecutive characters
```

## qwerty distance (taxi-cab) based swapping
```python
Signature: MrsWord.qwerty_swap(max_distance=1)
Docstring:

swap characters with their qwerty neighbors

Args:
    max_distance (int): the max distance (taxi-cab) of keys on the keyboard to swap
                        e.g. `max_distance=1` then "g" could become one of ["f", "h"]
                            `max_distance=2` then "g" could become one of ['f', 'h', 't', 'y', 'v', 'b']
                            Note: The number of swaps possible increases with distance however the increase is not always uniform.
                            For example, the 3rd set of keys from g is ['6', 'd', 'j'] while the second was ['t', 'y', 'v', 'b']
Returns:
    MrsSpellings (set): all possible misspellings that form as a result of swapping characters with qwerty neighbors

```

### what is qwerty distance?

Qwerty distance is the distance between keys on the typical keyboard. For the purposes of this package, the following assumptions are made:

- each row has half a key offset
- the l1 distance is a good estimate of the natural travel distance between keys on the keyboard
- the shift key can add distance by virtue of requiring a hold-down

Here is an example of the results of these assumptions. The closest keys grouped by equal distance (groups in ascending order to furthest distance) to the `g` key are:
```python
[['f', 'h'],
 ['t', 'y', 'v', 'b'],
 ['6', 'd', 'j'],
 ['r', 'u', 'c', 'n'],
 ['^', '5', '7', 's', 'k'],
 ['e', 'i', 'x', 'm'],
 ['%', '&', '4', '8', 'a', 'l'],
 ['w', 'o', 'z', '<'],
 ['$', '*', '3', '9', ':'],
 ['q', 'p', ','],
 ['#', '(', '2', '0', ';'],
 ['[', '>'],
 ['@', ')', '1', '-', '"'],
 [']', '.'],
 ['!', '_', '`', '=', "'"],
 ['\\', '?'],
 ['~', '+', '{'],
 ['/'],
 ['}'],
 ['|']]
 ```
